# 15

>$^{31}$The ear that listens to life-giving reproof
  will dwell among the wise.
  $^{32}$Whoever ignores instruction despises himself,
  but he who listens to reproof gains intelligence.
  $^{33}$The fear of the LORD is instruction in wisdom,
  and humility comes before honor.

These three proverbs touch on the same and related themes. We find it hard to be told we're wrong because we're proud. But we need to be shown our faults, we often can't see them for ourselves. The second proverb highlights the tragic irony, the lie inherent in pride. Pride feels like it is seeking for your own good. When the proud person ignores instruction and reproof it is out of a sense of trying to show superiority over the person giving the correction. The attitude is "who do you think you are to tell me what to do?" (which is to say: "I  already know better" or "I don't care if you're right, I'll do what I decide"). It might feel good to assert our superiority and it might even impress some people when we do, but it actually does us harm. Like many sins, it can feel good in the moment, but in choosing to harm ourselves we really are despising ourselves.  

The third proverb points us towards the way we should be. The proud person is afraid of not being respected like they feel they deserve, or not having the position or wealth they deserve. The humble person fears God and is not concerned about how they are esteemed. The proud person wants recognition for what they've done even if it's nothing great, or who they are even though we're all equal before God. Correction to a proud person is an affront. But a humble person will be asking themselves how they can do better and will listen and be thankful for correction. The final phrase "humility comes before honor" is a companion to the more famous "pride goes before a fall". A humble attitude is needed to keep learning and getting better, this will often lead to humble people becoming much more proficient, dependable, wise and knowledgable than proud people. 