# 15

>$^{2}$And when they ask you, ‘Where shall we go?’ you shall say to them, ‘Thus says the LORD:
  “‘Those who are for pestilence, to pestilence,
  and those who are for the sword, to the sword;
  those who are for famine, to famine,
  and those who are for captivity, to captivity.’

The question near the start of this passage reminded me of John 6

>$^{67}$So Jesus said to the twelve, “Do you want to go away as well?” $^{68}$Simon Peter answered him, “Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life, $^{69}$and we have believed, and have come to know, that you are the Holy One of God.”

There is a great deal of difference between these two passages but questions are similar. In Jeremiah the people ask "where shall we go" whereas Peter asks "Lord, to whom shall we go". 

The unbelievers don't address God with a mark of respect like Peter does. He begins his question with "Lord", a word which shows Peter is counting God as being in charge.The unbelievers aren't looking for a person, they ask "where".  Their question may carry with it a sense of entitlement to the place they have. Peter asks "to whom", it carries a sense of belonging, like he's saying "there's no one else like you, our Lord, teacher and friend, how could we manage without you?"

The chapter in Jeremiah is primarily talking about God's judgement on his people who have turned away.  It's frightening and for most of the chapter it seems the people's fate is already decided, but then at the end, God offers a way, not to a place, but to himself

>$^{19}$Therefore thus says the LORD:
  “If you return, I will restore you,
  and you shall stand before me.
  If you utter what is precious, and not what is worthless,
  you shall be as my mouth.
  They shall turn to you,
  but you shall not turn to them.
  $^{20}$And I will make you to this people
  a fortified wall of bronze;
  they will fight against you,
  but they shall not prevail over you,
  for I am with you
  to save you and deliver you,
  declares the LORD.
  $^{21}$I will deliver you out of the hand of the wicked,
  and redeem you from the grasp of the ruthless.”

God offers to save people who have turned away from him if they will just turn back. He is even happy to have these people speak on his behalf. 