# 7

Job continues to complain calling life a trial. He says he would rather die than live. He rebukes Eliphaz for talking about his vision of the night saying his bed should be a place of comfort, why scare me with visions? 

Job begins to question God. Maybe his suffering makes him wonder about some things he didn't consider before. His questions are difficult to answer, I'm not sure we're given an answer. 

17-21
> What is man, that you make so much of him,
  and that you set your heart on him,
  visit him every morning
  and test him every moment?
  How long will you not look away from me,
  nor leave me alone till I swallow my spit?
  **If I sin, what do I do to you, you watcher of mankind?**
  Why have you made me your mark?
  Why have I become a burden to you?
  Why do you not pardon my transgression
  and take away my iniquity?
  For now I shall lie in the earth;
  you will seek me, but I shall not be.”

Job's question about why does God care about our sin is impossible to answer. My brother Tom asked me just the same question. Why can't God just let it go? We don't know, we only know that God hates sin and won't just let it go. 

However we know that God does pardon our transgression. Has Job forgotten this? Does he think his suffering is a punishment? It’s  hard to know. We can see that Job is suffering and can't understand why God would let this happen to him, but in it all he recognises that he isn't the only person to suffer and he questions why other people have to suffer too. 