# 10
>$^6$from the beginning of creation, ‘God made them male and female.’ $^7$Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, $^8$and the two shall become one flesh.’ So they are no longer two but one flesh. $^9$What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate.”
  $^{10}$And in the house the disciples asked him again about this matter. $^{11}$And he said to them, “Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her, $^{12}$and if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery.”

I have moved from a simple understanding of this passage and the others like it, to one where I justified divorce and remarriage in some situations, and back to the original simpler view. Jesus makes this issue really important. He doesn’t want married couples to divorce or remarry if they do. 

Divorce is painful for so many people. Jesus’ teaching can seem harsh but divorce is harsher. By making marriage so binding he’s encourages people to weigh things carefully before entering into it, to strive to keep their marriages strong, to rebuild them if they’re in a bad way. 

Malachi 2:14-16 also shows how much God hates divorce. 

God is faithful by his nature. Marriage is a living symbol of God’s faithfulness to his people. It’s a precious thing. 

Divorce is a hard topic, especially for people personally affected, which these days is most people one way or another. 

>$^{13}$And they were bringing children to him that he might touch them, and the disciples rebuked them. $^{14}$But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them, “Let the children come to me; do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God. $^{15}$Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it.” $^{16}$And he took them in his arms and blessed them, laying his hands on them.

It’s not uncommon to hear phrases like “children are the future”. Jesus however gives the children as much dignity and importance as adults even while they are still children. He even uses the children as an example to the adults of how the kingdom of heaven should be received. We don’t know how old these children were, only that they were old enough to come to Jesus (presumably walking, running or skipping to him). It’s easy as adults to overemphasise the importance of our understanding. I think Jesus is showing through this instance that he isn’t looking for deep understanding as a prerequisite for people to follow him. The way is open to the children, more so than for jaded adults. Elsewhere Jesus likens his followers to sheep. He’s looking for a simple trust in him. 

I love how the passage talks about how Jesus takes the children in his arms. I imagine there were very young children there. Being a parent myself now I can see just how important touch is I’m showing love to small children who can’t understand much of what you say. Jesus isn’t aloof, isn’t reserved, he loves these little children and isn’t ashamed to show it.

>And as he was setting out on his journey, a man ran up and knelt before him and asked him, “Good Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?” And Jesus said to him, “Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. You know the commandments: Do not murder, Do not commit adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor your father and mother.’” And he said to him, “Teacher, all these I have kept from my youth.” And Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said to him, “You lack one thing: go, sell all that you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.” Disheartened by the saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions.
  And Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, “How difficult it will be for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!” And the disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus said to them again, “Children, how difficult it is to enter the kingdom of God! It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God.” And they were exceedingly astonished, and said to him, “Then who can be saved?” Jesus looked at them and said, “With man it is impossible, but not with God. For all things are possible with God”

Straight after Mark relates the incident of the children coming to him he relates this sad incident of the rich young man. This shows us one concrete example of how adults can find it harder than children to enter the kingdom. It looks like there is a real sincerity in this young man’s heart but when Jesus asks him to give up everything and follow him the young man can’t bring himself to do it because “he had great possessions”. Most of Jesus’ disciples were probably poor but it is likely that Matthew the tax collector had a similar choice to make as the rich young man and chose to follow Jesus.

The disciples are amazed when Jesus says how difficult it is for those with wealth to enter the kingdom of heaven. There seems to be a veneration and respect in their society for rich people. This is probably the reverse aspect of the way in which the Pharisees assumed the blind man’s blindness was a result of sin. It is clear to see from this account why it is hard. Wealthy people can easily end up trusting and loving their wealth more than the Lord. 

Jesus chooses to call his followers (including adults and his disciples) “children”, making the comparison between the rich young man and the children very explicit.

Jesus goes on to use the analogy of a camel passing through the eye of a needle being easier than for a rich person to enter the kingdom. We’re told the disciples are astonished by this and ask “then who can be saved?” Jesus responds that “with man it is impossible, but not with God. For all things are possible with God.” Ending the dialogue in this way reminds us how we are all in the same boat. Wealthy people have particular temptations but Jesus isn’t saying they cannot be saved too. 

It is noteworthy that when Jesus asks the rich young man to sell all he has, he doesn’t ask him to give it to Jesus, or his ministry or to support his followers. He asks him to give it to the poor. Jesus was poor himself but was willing to have this man join him bringing nothing with him even though he could have brought great wealth with him. In this way Jesus shows that he doesn’t need or want money to proclaim the gospel. Or maybe you could say he feels the advance of the gospel is best served by putting the money to a selfless and generous use. 

Paul exemplifies this approach too. We know that he didn’t let lack of money stop him taking the good news to new cities. He worked for his own living, preaching in his spare time on occasion even though he almost certainly could have found support from more established congregations. 

It really sticks with me how I read about how John Chrysostom spurned all the wealth and luxuries on offer when he took up his role as bishop. He was concerned he would become corrupted by money and love it more than God and the people in the city. The poor of the city loved him, he walked with them as one of them, by choice, like Jesus.

When I read the New Testament (and the old) it seems to me that helping the poor is very high on the list of priorities when we give. Also, that the champions of the gospel were content with what they needed, they didn’t look for riches, they looked for the boldness, courage and love they needed to spread the good news.