# 31

>$^1$I have made a covenant with my eyes;
  how then could I gaze at a virgin?
  $^2$What would be my portion from God above
  and my heritage from the Almighty on high?  

Here we can see how Job understands that God isn't only interested in our perceptible actions, but our thoughts too. I used to wonder if Job was exaggerating, could any man master himself so well that he could avoid gazing at beautiful women. But now I don't think it is exaggeration, I think it is very practical. If we want to avoid lust, we must take thoughts captive at the earliest stage possible. Yes, even when it's just looking. Looks can lead to other things. Looks can be intimidating, or they can be tempting for both the watcher and the observed. Looks very quickly turn to desires and thoughts you shouldn't be thinking. Thoughts can turn to actions, but even if they don't, coveting inwardly  someone you shouldn't have is to break the tenth commandment. It is to foster malcontentment and ingratitude in your heart.

>$^9$“If my heart has been enticed toward a woman,
  and I have lain in wait at my neighbor’s door,
  $^{10}$then let my wife grind for another,
  and let others bow down on her.
  $^{11}$For that would be a heinous crime;
  that would be an iniquity to be  punished by the judges;
  $^{12}$for that would be a fire that consumes  as far as Abaddon,
  and it would burn to the root all my increase.  

Job turns to consider adultery and how abhorrent it is. He says how he would prove himself utterly unworthy of his wife if he were to do such a thing. 