# 10

Paul's desire for his fellow Jews to be saved is a stark contrast to the animosity between Christians. The Jews whom Paul so eagerly wants to see saved are the people who are persecuting him. Paul is really living Jesus' message of loving your enemies. 

I still find it difficult the way Paul treats of the Old Testament. I can't understand how he seemingly plays so fast and loose with the scriptures and it's ok. The passage from Deuteronomy he quotes on the surface don't seem to be speaking about justification by faith at all but about keeping the commandments delivered by Moses, but in Paul's hands the passage is reinterpreted to be about justification by faith. 

Nevertheless he does find ample quotations where it is much easier to see that this is foreshadowed and even taught in the Old Testament. 

*How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, “How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news!”*
v14-15. 

I think I’ll always remember how this passage was talked about in the training I went to with OMF before going to Laos. I’ve never had the zeal to witness about Jesus that I’d like to have. I knew I wasn’t a real missionary. This passage helps to remind us why it is important to preach the Good News. God has chosen to spread the a gospel through his church, that’s us. The passage emphasises the plight of the unsaved. 