# 11

>Then he began to **denounce** the cities where most of his **mighty works** had been done, because they did not **repent**. “**Woe** to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. But I tell you, it will be more bearable on the day of judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you. And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You will be brought down to Hades. For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. But I tell you that it will be more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for you.”

* where we're from and who we are doesn't matter to God. Chorazin, Bethsaida and Capernaum were all Jewish towns. None of us have such a good background that we are acceptable to God.  
* no matter how bad our background, God can save us. The cities Jesus mentioned were  the homes of the Jews enemies. If Jesus was talking to us he might talk about North Korea, Russia, Hamas  
* we must all repent, be sorry for the evil we've done, and want to turn from it
* God  is a fair judge. He doesn't just look at what we've done, but our circumstances. Jesus says God will judge people who have heard the message and seen miracles and not believed more severely than those who haven't. You have all heard about Jesus  
* can you think of anyone else in the Bible who saw God's miracles and didn't believe?  Can you think of people who followed God that you wouldn't expect, who started as God's enemy?  

>At that time Jesus declared, “I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children; yes, Father, for such was your gracious will. All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”

* there are some things you just can't do if you're not clever enough. At work I come across things I can't understand so can't solve. But God has made it so you don't have to be wise to come to him. Little children can come to him
* Jesus is inviting us to come. Rest from guilt, hopelessness, despair. Rest for your souls