# 18
The disciples come to Jesus at the beginning of the chapter to ask Him

>*$^1$ Who is the greatest in the kingdom of Heaven?* 

Jesus’ response shows just how different God’s idea of greatness is than ours. His response also shows us that we shouldn’t be preoccupied with achieving greatness. 

>*$^4$Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.
>$^5$Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me, $^6$but whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea.

In verse 4 Jesus tells us we should be seeking humility, not glory. And it is the most humble people who are - paradoxically - the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. He even gives a child as an example of humility. Perhaps this is a powerful reminder of how we can lose our innocence, lose things as we grow rather than grow in maturity. As sinners this is in fact the way we are set to go naturally. To grow worse. 

In verse 5 Jesus calls our attention to Himself. Jesus is utterly unlike the other prophets and apostles in saying this sort of thing. There’s an implicit assumption in what He says that it is a good thing to receive Him. He encourages us to receive children **because** Jesus will count it as though we are doing it for Him. This says so much about our Lord, how He knows everything, how else would He know all the unseen acts of kindness? How He loves everyone, from the smallest to the greatest and loves them so much that small acts of kindness towards them matter to Him. 

In verse 6 Jesus warns us how serious it is to lead others into sin. This is exactly the same kind of teaching as in chapter 6 where after teaching against being angry at others Jesus asks us to set things right with people who we have done wrong to. Even in His anger Jesus shows His love because there is a protectiveness in His anger. He is angry when people harm those He loves. 