# 21

>*$^{12}$And Jesus entered the temple and drove out all who sold and bought in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money-changers and the seats of those who sold pigeons. $^{13}$He said to them, “It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer,’ but you make it a den of robbers.”*

The fact that the only time I’m Jesus’ time on earth that He showed anger in a physical way was when he saw people buying and selling in the temple should make us very wary of seeking monetary gain through what we do for God. For most of us this isn’t a big temptation but some people get the chance to sell their story, or some kind of service. 

Jesus also threw out the buyers. Maybe this is something that applies to more people. We’re can’t buy our way into God’s favour. It’s not through spending lots on books, magazines, retreats or whatever else that we earn God’s favour and we certainly shouldn’t be trying to win other people’s favour in that kind of way. 

God wants our very selves. 

>*$^{23}$And when he entered the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came up to him as he was teaching, and said, “By what authority are you doing these things, and who gave you this authority?” $^{24}$Jesus answered them, “I also will ask you one question, and if you tell me the answer, then I also will tell you by what authority I do these things. $^{25}$The baptism of John, from where did it come? From heaven or from man?” And they discussed it among themselves, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will say to us, Why then did you not believe him?’ $^{26}$But if we say, ‘From man,’ we are afraid of the crowd, for they all hold that John was a prophet.” $^{27}$So they answered Jesus, “We do not know.” And he said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.*

Jesus’ response is very clever. They attempt to trap Jesus with His own words so Jesus asks them a question which if they answer it would trap them with their own words. We get something of the discussion the chief priests have. They don’t talk about the true way of answering the question at all. They’re only interested in how others will perceive their answer. They’re not interested in truth but in power, reputation and so they play politics. In the end they dissemble and instead of nailing their colours to the mast they say they don’t know. Jesus then responds in such a way that implies That although He does know the answer to their question He is choosing not to answer them. It also implies that the chief priests are choosing not to give an answer, thereby calling out their deceitfulness. The way the chief priests are here is often easier than being honest. We shouldn’t allow what we fear others will think or do to excuse lying. 