# 39
The first ten verses of this chapter deal with the fall of Jerusalem. Jeremiah has been warning that this was coming but the leaders didn’t listen. There were false prophets who said Israel would stand. There was a deal with Egypt the rulers thought would keep them safe. But in the end the Babylonians do come and lay siege to Jerusalem. After two years they make a breach in the wall, King Zedekiah flees but is captured, brought before King Nebuchadnezzar who slaughters his sons and nobles in front of his eyes before having King Zedekiah’s eyes put out and having him led away in chains to Babylon. They then burn much of the city, loot the temple, take thousands of people away into captivity and give the land to the poorest who they leave behind. 

It’s hard to imagine a defeat more complete, more devastating. 

I was talking to a colleague who thought  the UK wouldn’t or couldn’t end up in a major war. I don’t have a word from the Lord about that. But this passage, and a great many events in history show how quickly things can change, how unexpected war can be, how unpredictable the outcome can be. 

The Neo Babylonian empire didn’t have the long history Israel and Egypt had, it was founded by Nebuchadnezzar’s father Nabopolassar. The Neo Babylonians came to be very powerful, very quickly.

The way that the rulers in Israel were in denial about how war could come remind me of what I’ve read of the leaders of Europe (and the public at large) in the lead up to the First World War. It also reminds me of the attitude people seem to have now. People’s expectations and sense of security can be very misplaced.

I don’t know what it is but both this and the accounts of Jesus’ crucifixion strike me in a similar way. There’s something about the dispassionate recounting of the gruesome facts that conveys a deep sorrow and shock. It’s very moving. 